Welcome back.
Now that we set up the form to create a blog post we'll move on.
Creating the views you want to create a view to create a blog post as well as a blog post view to update
a blog post or delete a blog post.
And then finally one view that actually just shows a singular blog post so you can think of these as
a create view and update view delete view and then just say normal show or just view of you if you will.
OK let's get started.
OK so we're back here.
This is the forums that py file we created in the previous lecture.
Pretty short.
The couple of lines of code we're going to go to our views up high.
So remember this is under blog posts forward slash views PI and we'll be creating the views here.
First we're gonna have to do a couple of imports.
Say from flask import we're going to render a template you Earl for if you want to flash the messages
you can say flash.
And then we'll also have request redirect and then blueprints.
OK so a bunch of imports from basic flask.
We're also going to need to make sure that someone's logged in if they want to edit or update their
blog posts so we'll say from flask log in import current user and the log in required decorator.
Then from that we'll just import a couple of things from our actual puppy company blog.
So say from puppy company blog import and we're going to import D-B.
So the actual database so it can actually save and commit our changes to blog post and we'll will say
from puppy company blog models import.
And we'll just be editing models based on the blog post.
We don't need to actually deal users here then from Papy company blog the blog posts forms.
We're going to import the form we just created which was the blog post forum.
And then finally let's actually register this entire set of views as a blueprint.
So I'll say blog posts equal to blueprints where we say blog posts and then passen name here and now
that we've actually have this blueprint Let's go ahead and just jump forward to registering it will
come in at that pie remember we.
If we scroll the way down to bottom we kind of have all these imports organized here so I'll do here
is we'll just say from puppie company blog stop blog posts views import and we call this blog posts
and then we'll just register it.
So say take her up and register the blog posts views.
OK so that blueprint is now registered.
So we'll come back to use that pie and the collapse some of these tabs here.
So we get as much space as possible.
And let's set up our views.
So first comments out which ones we want to do we want you for creating a blog post.
We want just a simple view for like viewing a blog post so just showing up a single blog post there
that we want to view for updating a blog post.
And then we want a view for deleting a blog post.
So there's always going to be kind of your basic crud sort of things create read up and delete.
So you can think of this as create read up and delete.
So start off with creating a new blog post so we'll say atts Let's do our routing here.
Blog posts dot routes and we'll just call this forward slash.
Well it's curious that right create that census will contain that form that we created earlier we'll
see methods as equal to get and post and a person should be logged in to create a blog post.
So I'll also attach the loggin required decorator to this particular view function and I'm going to
just call this create post and then we'll say form is equal to the blog post form that we created earlier.
So blog post form and now we have an instance of that form.
Let's give ourselves a couple more lines of space here.
So upon creating that form if that form is valid on submit.
So that means they submitted the form and it's valid.
We'll create a new instance of a blog post.
So I'm just going to say that the blog post is equal to an instance of a blog post with the title equal
to the title provided in that form and then we'll also say that the text is equal to the form thought
text data.
And then finally we'll also want to make sure that we link this to a particular user ID so that was
required if you go back to our models up-I file that's in the in it for a blog post.
So say user ID is equal to the current logged in user.
And then we'll just grab their ID.
So we have to make sure that these two are coming from the form and so user ID is coming from the currently
logged in user since our form does ask the user for their ID.
Once you created that instance of the blog post now we just save it toward the database.
So say take our D-B session and then add the blog post.
So you just created.
Go ahead and commit those changes.
So SATB session commits and if you want you can flash some message if you decide to stay on the same
page.
So you could say blog post created and often will people like you as the beginning testing apps.
They sometimes sort of flash and this will just print it out so you can check your command line to see
if things are working.
And then we'll just return.
In this case we're going to redirect.
And you can redirect wherever you want.
After you've created a blog post in our case we'll just redirect them back to the home page.
So saying go back to our core index page Now that's if they've actually submitted the form room or we
want to have a basic return render template for the very first thing that's going to show up in this
case we'll go ahead and say create posts the H team L and we'll pass in that form equal to form.
So we're going to end up later on creating a template for a creating a post for him.
Let's go ahead to just create that template right now as far as the actual file.
So we don't forget.
So underneath templates all say new file create underscore.
Post each team L.
OK.
So I had that Tim.
I'll fill that out later.
So I've done the create.
Now it's time to actually do kind of the read or view of a single blog post.
So how can we do this.
This one we actually don't need to worry if someone's logged in or not.
So we're going to say as blog posts that route and we're going to use a numbering system because remember
every single blog post has a unique ID integer identifier.
So all we can to say is the following blog post ID.
And remember we're going to pass this in.
So essentially someone can go to your Web site go forward slash and then put the blog post ID and they
will be able to find that actual viewing of that single blog post.
Now to make sure that this is going to be treated as an integer within our function what we're going
to do is one last thing we're going to say I enty colon.
And what that does is it makes sure that when someone provides this blog post and we actually use it
instead of a function that we treat it as an integer instead of a string.
You'll see why that's important.
And just the second going to create my view of what I should call it blog posts since we're just reading
a blog post and we're going to take in our blog post ID so remember that's the actual ID that's being
passed in here.
And then we'll say blog post is equal to and then we're just going to query our table.
So I'll say get underscore or 4 0 4 for that blog post ID.
So this is the main reason right here why we're passing in this I and.
Basically it's kind of a qualifier.
So if you didn't have this eye and see what could happen is it thinks that this blog post ID is a string.
So then when you actually end up queering based off that blog post Id remember in the actual database
or table that's an integer not a string.
So it could get confused which is why we want to clarify that when we're passing this into this function.
We want to make sure that it's cast as an integer.
That way we can successfully query our blog post table.
So once we've done that we're just going to return and we're going to render a template for viewing
a single blog post and we'll just call that template blog post HVM L and woold passen.
Let's say the title of the blog post.
So say grab that blog post-Idol.
And then also Passons some other things.
Let's passen the date.
So we're saying grab that blog post day.
And then the post itself you can say blog post.
It's up to you whether you want to pass in the blog post and grab those attributes in the template or
if you pass them separately here.
Personally since this has to do more of Python I like calling these attributes in the views but you
could figure out a way to just do it all the template side.
But this to me makes a little more sense that way when we actually reached the template.
I get these nice variables title dates and post to play around with.
OK so we're going to say that.
And since we created this blog post each team l reference here and views let's quickly create that template
as well just so we have it ready to go.
So underneath templates all say new file and I'll create a blog post.
H Teano.
So that is something we're going to fill out later.
So we have two views down.
Last two we want to do is an update to a blog post and delete to a blog post.
So let's get this going.
The one that's actually going to look really similar to the create as you may have guessed we'll say
blog post route and we're going to route.
Now we're actually going to be using the same sort of integer technique we did earlier to make sure
that when we look up this blog posts and or update it we're looking it up as a integer.
So say grab that blog post and then go to update and we'll say methods is equal to gets and post because
there is going to be a form on this page for updating this and we should also make sure that the person
is logged in.
So we're going to say log in required and they all say the update blog post ID and we're going to do
a couple of things here.
We don't want anyone to be able to edit or update anyone else's blog posts.
So we want to make sure that when we actually query this blog post immediately after that we make sure
that the current author is equal to the current user.
So let's show you how we could do that.
First let's actually grab the blog post that was requested in the Yoro will do that simply by essentially
copying and pasting what we did up here which was blocked post queery get 404 get blog posts.
That's actually the exact same command.
We're going to have here.
So someone's going to go to this ID number go forward slash update and then we will query for them whether
or not that blog post exists will say either return or for or for or grab that blog post.
Now we want to check to make sure that the person visiting this for the update is actually the author.
So here we're going to say if Blog Post the author is not equal to the current user then I'm going to
call abort 4 0 3 and this abort function is something that flask actually comes with which allows you
to pasand common error codes so you could kind of forced abortions of like 4 0 4 4 0 3 4 10 or 500 internal
servicer.
In this case we're going to pass and 4 0 which means forbidden.
That basically means they don't have access due to some permission issue.
And in this case it's because they're not the actually the author so they shouldn't be updating that
blog post.
OK.
Let's assume that everything went well there the actual author then will just create a form.
So we'll create an instance of our blog posts form and then once that's done we're going to do the same
thing that we did in our creed.
So let's copy that code here.
We're going to see if that form was valid on submission.
We're going to pass in the form that title foreign text and the user id the session commit and then
grab all this stuff so I to grab all this and we'll edit it just a little bit for the actual update.
OK.
So we decided they are the author.
They've created a blog post for it the form is valid on Submit.
Well we're going to do is instead of creating a brand new blog post we're just going to set the current
blog posts we grab and reassign those attributes to the form data.
So instead of creating that we're going to do is say the following.
We'll say that blog post its title is going to be equal to the form titled out data and that blog post
its text is going to be equal to now the format text data we already know who the current user ID is
so we can go ahead and just close that.
We don't need to add anything.
We just need to commit because it's an update and then we can say well is that a blog post created blog
post updated.
And it's kind of up to you where you want to redirect after this what we'll do is we're going to redirect
to the actual particular blog post where they can see the update complete.
So say you're all for blog posts.
The blog post.
So that's essentially the view that we created earlier and then we want to actually make sure we go
to the right blog post when you provide the ID.
So say blog post ID is equal to the blog post thought Id.
OK so let's kind of break down what we just did here and zoom out so we can kind of see the whole picture.
Basically what we're saying is if someone wants to update a blog we go ahead and grab that blog.
Return of four or four if it doesn't exist.
If it does exist then we move on and check that the current user was the actual author.
If not we're going to abort with a permission issue.
So if everything went well then they can fill out that update form.
So the blog post form and then we're just going to reset the title to the title and that form will reset
the text to the text in that form.
Will any changes flash that it was updated and then redirect them to the new View which was essentially
this view right here.
This blog post view member that blog post it takes and this blog post ID which is why we're passing
this in here.
Now if we just have this by itself what's going to happen is when someone views and wants to update
their actual blog posts they'll start off with an empty title an empty text.
So that's not really much of an update.
It's more of like rewriting the entire thing.
So we want to make sure is when they first view this update page the original title and original text
is already been pre-filled out in the form for them.
So the way we do that the will say Elif request method is equal to get.
So they haven't actually posted yet.
Then will do the following.
We'll kind of do the reverse of what we did in Lyons 56 and 57 there we'll say go ahead and grab the
form and say it's title data equal to the blog post title and set the form's text data equal to the
block post.
Text and then finally we're going to return render a template and we'll have the Create post.
H t m l will say tidal is updating form is for and if you want you can have a legend here or not.
So it's up to you really what you want to pass back.
But really what we need to pass back is the forum and we can update the title of the actual age as well.
This means we have one last view to create which is our view essentially deleting a blog post.
So for this is also going to be pretty straightforward and in fact I'm going to just copy and paste
from what we did up here because instead of updating it we're just leading it.
So the log in to also be required will want to make sure that instead of update we just call this delete
and then we'll say DPF delete post pasand the blog post ID and then say a blog post is equal to blog
posts.
The query get or 4 or 4 pass in that blog post ID so really similar to what we did before.
We also want to check that they have permission to delete this so same permission check as we just did
for the update will say if the author isn't qualified we abort.
So if not then we'll just say D-B session deletes and then will pass in that blog post so they'll actually
remove the blog post and they will commit that deletion.
And then we can flash the message saying blog posts deleted.
So in our case depending on how we read their X work they may or may not see that flash and then we're
going to see a return redirect.
Let's redirect to and this case will go your for court thought index and save.
OK something to notice here is I'm not actually going to connect this to a particular template instead.
Later on when we're building out our templates we're going to learn about modals with bootstrap and
that's going to have a nice little pop up button that they can choose to delete.
So you can think of that almost as kind of a log out where a log out doesn't actually have a log out
thought h T.M. that's directly connected to it.
Instead it just initiates the view almost as like an action instead of an actual template.
So delete is going to work the same way.
There's not going to be a delete.
H Tim L.
Instead we have a button that executes all this deletion code.
All right so we have our four views ready to go.
Now we need to do is create the templates that connect them.
So we've created our imports.
We have a create view.
Pretty straightforward here.
Just pass in the form and then fill it out.
Commit those changes.
We have a view which is also pretty straightforward just grab that blog post and then render it in the
template.
Then we have an update.
This a little more complicated.
We have to make sure that the right author was viewing it and then we wanted to kind of pre fill in
some information here.
In the second part than for deleting we had essentially the same thing as an update except now we're
just calling delete and we'll see why later on in the next lecture.
This does have either rec template.
Instead it will be kind of a delete button on The View blog post page.
All right that's it for those views.
Thanks and we'll see you at the next lecture.